# BlankSkyfor3p5

#### An illustrative example based off of [Dessert et al. Science 2020](https://science.sciencemag.org/content/367/6485/1465) on searching for the 3.5 keV line in XMM-Newton blank sky data.

This repository contains a series of Jupyter notebooks which allow the interested reader to analyze the stacked data from the MOS camera onboard XMM-Newton presented in [Dessert et al. Science 2020](https://science.sciencemag.org/content/367/6485/1465) for evidence of dark matter decaying into the 3.5 keV line, and to interactively view our response to criticisms of this work, namely [Boyarsky et al. 2018](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1812.10488.pdf) and [Boyarsky et al. 2020](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2004.06601.pdf). The latter work, in particular, analyzed 17 Ms of MOS data between 20$^\circ$ and 35$\circ$ degrees of the Galactic Center, and claims to find a 4.0$\sigma$ significance line.

Let us start with the first notebook `Jupyter/DRS20_mos_stacked.ipynb`. Here we analyze the stacked MOS data from our fiducial dataset, which contains observations made between 5 and 45 degrees away from the Galactic Center. In the original paper, we instead use a joint likelihood over these observations, which has various advantages explained in the text. Nevertheless this notebook provides an illustrative and interactive example for the reader. This example also works up towards mocking up the analysis procedure of Boyarsky et al. 2020. Additional details, including plots and the full self-contained code, can be found in the notebook. The interested reader is encouraged to experiment with aspects of the analysis to see how the results change. 

In the second notebook, `Jupyter/BMRS20_mos_our_cuts.ipynb`, we analyze a subset of the MOS observations analyzed in Boyarsky et al. 2020. The subset is exactly those observations which pass our quality cuts detailed in our paper. This leaves approximately 8.5 Ms of data. We find no evidence for a 3.5 keV line, and in addition the derived limits are already strongly constraining the 3.5 keV line parameter space assuming dark matter decay.

In the third notebook, `Jupyter/BMRS20_mos_their_cuts.ipynb`, we analyze the exact same dataset analyzed in Boyarsky et al. 2020. This dataset includes observations with large backgrounds and therefore the stacking procedure can result in systematic issues associated with background mismodeling. These issues are highlighted in the notebook. In addition, we qualitatively reproduce the results of the Boyarsky et al. 2020 analysis. 

Please direct questions to bsafdi@umich.edu and cite the original paper if you use this data or these examples in a publication. The full data products are available at https://github.com/nickrodd/XMM-DM.
